## LeanderTechTroubles

### September 9, 2018

I haven't mentionned this before but this past month has been a pretty evident tech disaster for me. It wasn't like I messed something up, uploaded something I shouldn't have, or didn't save a word document; all my problems have been with physical hardware. Let's start off with my phone, a Samsung Galaxy S7.

I really really liked that phone. It was reliable, customizable, and I had my launcher/icons/gestures all the way I wanted. I'd dare to say that that phone felt like home. But then, I messed up. It wasn't even like a real fall or anything, which is what I think, the most upsetting part of it. So I'm just hanging out, typing away on my laptop, doing my own thing, when I decide that it's been 4 min, and I have to check my phone. Nothing precarious, it was just on my desk, sitting there, but when I turned to pick it up, I ended up knocking it down to the floor. But see, that's not what broke it. I had a carpetted apartment in Waterloo at the time, plus an Otterbox Case. No no no, what did break it was me losing the phone once it fell. I didn't know where it went, so naturally, I pushed on my wheely chair to get a better view of the floor, but instead  _ran right over my innocent S7 in the process_. What an upsettiing day that was. The entire phone was like cracked/bent and was totally beyond repair. The screen had completely shut down but sit seemed like the buttons and speakers still worked. I'm pretty sure I unlocked it at one point and heard some sort of music, but I mean, how was that going to help.

I'm pretty lucky though. My dad had a spare iPhone 6S, so that's my phone now. I haven't had an iPhone since like Grade 10, which is crazy and man does it feel different. I have so many little gripes with this guy. Why can't I move icons whereever I want? Why can't I remove the app names; the icons are different for a reason! Why can't I hide apps? Why can't I close all background apps at once? Man, I'm just not used to it, but I can't complain. I'm the one that literally _murdered_ my last phone.

My second TechTrouble kinda has a happy ending-ish thing. I really really like aesthetics when it comes to devices. Let's take my laptop for example. I have a Dell XPS 15 9560, which at the time, was the thinnest bezel laptop on the market. That end-to-end look 