---
type: blog
archive: false
showcase: true
slug: jump-cut
title: I have a podcast now
description: >-
  Yep, we finally went through with it and released a podcast. Were still
  amateur, and not that funny, or interesting or good, so you probably shouldn't
  listen to it.
image: /assets/blog__jump-cut.png
tags:
  - movies
  - project
date: 2020-02-21T22:44:22.999Z
---
First blog post of 2020 and it's in goddamn Februrberry. I'm just shit at remembering to keep updating this, even though I've made it so easy for myself. Woops. 

Well anyway.

TL;DR My buddy Hashem ([@thehaash](https://twitter.com/thehaash)) and I started this awful movie review podcast called 'Jump Cut', and you can find it on Spotify, Google Podcasts, Apple Podcasts (soonish...) and over on [jumpcut.fm](https://jumpcut.fm).

Honestly the TL;DR kinda did the job of the entire blog post, but yeah, Hashem and I finally got around to publishing. We recorded two episodes over the course of like 3 months and only recently just got back into it. After another month, we finally had something we were happy to put out there, and it's up for y'all to check out. It's been a long time coming, and it's just as amateurish as you think it is. If you like well-manicured, entertaining and high-production-value radio shows you are definitely in the wrong place, but it is pretty fun 😎

It's a lot harder than everyone makes it seem if I'm going to be real, especially trying to consistently talk for like a full hour. Most of that is probably because it still kinda feels like a performance instead of a conversation, but either way it's an acquired skill. Everyone feels the same way when they enter a new hobby/creative space but I gotta give mad props to professional podcasters who can just be _on_ for hours and hours -- back to back.

I'm not going to blab for too long, I just wanted to put it out there and say to check it out if you have time. It's not all bells and whistles, but I can confidently say we'll get better.

On second though maybe like wait an few months, we'll have something decent by then probably.
