---
type: blog
archive: false
showcase: true
slug: is-ranked
title: Ranking the Infinity Saga
description: After all those explosions, I've finally finished re-watching the
  Infinity Saga's films (2008-2019). Here's the definitive list for how those
  movies compare against one another, with some helpful tiers as well.
image: /assets/blog__is-ranked.jpg
tags:
  - movies
date: 2020-09-11T19:39:39.324Z
---

Okay, I finally did it. I re-watched and ranked all the movies in Marvel's Infinity Saga, because what else was I going to do during quarantine. Keep in mind that this list is final, unchanging, and that my word should be taken as law. If you want a review for each film individually, you should check out the binge-review posts I made for each of the phases.

[Phase 1](https://www.leander.xyz/blog/is-phase-1)

[Phase 2](https://www.leander.xyz/blog/is-phase-2)

[Phase 3](https://www.leander.xyz/blog/is-phase-3)

Without further ado, the Infinity Saga movies ranked from best (#1) to worst (#23), along with some sectioned tiers:

<mark>**Platinum Tier**</mark>

1. Avengers: Infinity War
2. Captain America: Civil War
3. Black Panther
4. Captain America: The Winter Soldier
5. Spider-Man: Homecoming
6. Avengers: Endgame

<mark>**Gold Tier**</mark>

7. Captain America: The First Avenger
8. Ant-Man
9. Iron Man
10. Doctor Strange
11. Iron Man 3

<mark>**Silver Tier**</mark>

12. The Avengers
13. Thor: Ragnarok
14. Spider-Man: Far From Home
15. Avengers: Age of Ultron
16. Captain Marvel
17. Ant-Man and the Wasp

<mark>**Bronze Tier**</mark>

18. Guardians of the Galaxy
19. Thor: The Dark World
20. Thor

<mark>**Iron Tier**</mark>

21. Iron Man 2
22. The Incredible Hulk

<mark>**Wood Tier**</mark>

23. Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2

Ta-da. Is it everything you dreamed of. I sure hope so.

If you want an in-depth review into each on of the movies you should check out 'phase reviews' for the Infinity Saga. That'll probably explain most of the reasoning behind the rankings, and if it doesn't that's just because I'm not great at explaining things. It doesn't mean I made a mistake and actually really like your favourite MCU film, you're still wrong.

As for the tiers, I want to translate them a bit:

- **Platinum**: These are movies that have compelling characters, visuals, stories and kept me hooked for most of the run-time. I would actively suggest these ones if people are in the mood for a Marvel movie.
- **Gold**: These films are almost as awesome as the Platinum tier, but still have a few flaws. With any movie there are hills and valleys, but these valleys are more noticeable. Sometimes there's going to be idle scenes, or a few odd character choices, but overall you'll have a fun time watching them. They're not perfect, but they're still excellent Marvel movies.
- **Silver**: These are still movies I'd consider good, but I definitely had my problems with them. They could be plot or presentation, but they're noticeable issues that ruined part of my experiences with the films. I wouldn't be upset if any of these were playing on a movie night, but I have others that I'd rather watch.
- **Bronze**: This is the tier at which I didn't enjoy the film, simply because the flows were so pronounced. There may have been moments where the presentation was good, or maybe the music — but overall I felt the movie failed more often than it succeeded.
- **Iron**: Straight up not enjoyable. This tier pretty much means that the movie failed in almost all aspects. The characters were frustrating, the plot was meaningless, there were massive holes and it wasn't very satisfying to watch. I still think these movies would be fun as a watch party, but only if attached to a drinking game.
- **Wood**: Specifically for _Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2_. This tier means that the movie frustrated me so much while watching that I actively wanted to turn it off midway through. Characters are flat/boring, the plot is convenient, and nothing seems to happen to merit the run time.

Please direct any suggestions for changes to this list to the nearest trash can. I'll see y'all in 2055, when Marvel concludes whatever their second 'saga' is going to be.
