---
type: blog
archive: false
showcase: true
slug: feeling-ashamed-of-empathy
title: feeling ashamed of empathy?
description: just some rambling thoughts to offload into the empty internet
image: /assets/blog__feeling-ashamed-of-empathy.jpg
tags:
  - thoughts
  - philosophy
date: 2022-04-21T06:57:54.012Z
---
It's weird that being empathetic is something you have to be cautious and mindful about now. I don't want to make people think I'm *too* empathetic or *too* compassionate towards people and communities I care about. I don't want to appear *too* anything. I would love to have 'woke' (eugh) discussions in the work place, but I don't want people to think of me as *that guy.* In my mind, I'm trying to convey my care for groups that seem not to receive much, why does that feel controversial? Don't you all agree? Why can't we bring that up?

And when I talk about this I'm not sure I am thinking of any specific place at all. I'm not calling out some workplace or institution that has made me feel this way, it's just this sense of what-is-normal that feels like the standard of a "western professional experience". And I recognize my lack of authority in describing the "western professional experience" in all of my nine-months of post grad employment, but I'd like to think that what I'm saying still has value. Maybe this feeling I'm discussing is limited to the tech sector, or software development; but that doesn't feel like the case. 

No, it feels more widespread than that, maybe like there is an assumed normal that is somewhere slightly skewed right. Like personality, and pride, and sharing the human experience needs to happen in a digital space managed by a corporation, or a conference attended by sleeping politicians rather than in streets, buses, dinner tables and the day to day. I am really not sure what this feeling I'm describing *is* exactly. The best way to word it is like a pressure to conform in some way, to a baseline that I don't entirely agree with.

But then again, I don't recognize myself as being someone who can be the one to lead or foster these discussions or movements! I don't find myself with enough authority to speak about rights for any minority groups I myself am apart of, let alone those I'm not! How do reconcile this 'pressure' with humility or awareness of my own short comings and failures? It's not that I doubt myself, in some depressed, self-hatred or anything, but I believe those who's lives I'd like to see improve deserve a better advocate. If there were to be a revolution, I recognize that I wouldn't be a speaker, but what then is my role? I am extremely influenced by the speakers of my generation (e.g. YouTube video essayists), and recognize that fostering these discussions is part of affecting change, but what is the next step?

Are the only roles to play in social change: 1) the person talking about the change, or 2) the donator of money/time? No, I don't think I very much agree with that (which I just made up, to then shoot down in the next sentence). I think there is some tertiary role in shaping the culture and technology with which these conversations can happen. Building systems and tools to facilitate the discussion and education surrounding these issues, and modernizing lessons from important influential thought leaders. This does NOT give people a pass on supporting systemic improvements, or advocating for minority rights, but I think can work along side that to serve some higher purpose.

Let's take myself for example. First generation Canadian, born there, living and working in Tech in California. I have never had any sort of media training or political history or impactful activist phase. What role do I play in affecting social change? I think that being conscious about the companies I support (through labour, consumption, or other-wise) can play a role. In my day to day, advocating for minority groups and empowering those leading these discussions is another. Maybe this sort of realization is obvious to most, and I'm the last dumbass to really, mindfully catch on to this. Maybe someone else has felt this nagging sense of aimlessness as well.

And don't get me wrong, I don't think it's all that easy. I believe the people aware that these social changes need to happen are incredibly empathetic and that lumping myself along side them doesn't give them the appropriate recognition. There are plenty more people in my mind who read more, listen more, and care more about social issues. I can recall moments of personal failures where I feel ashamed of my actions, or complacence, but I don't think that is unique to me, and I just want to convey that I really believe that's normal. Personal growth involves recognizing those areas of weakness and taking steps to address them, even if they're small. Taking steps as limited as your sphere of influence, to affect positive change and stay healthy/alive while doing so. It is not on one individual to personally suffer just because you are empathetic and recognize how bad some other people have it.

Eugh. I think I wrote all this garbage just to circle back around to the idea that those with privilege should use their privilege to promote those who do not. I guess this is my brain's way of coping with the idea that I don't think I can be a voice the way [hbomberguy](https://www.youtube.com/user/hbomberguy), or [ContraPoints](https://www.youtube.com/c/ContraPoints), or [Ro Ramdin](https://www.youtube.com/c/roramdin) seem to be for people like me. But I think that's okay. I think most people can't be. But it's also on us to search for, in some meaningful way, for the way's in which we can be useful in helping the people that we all care about. We're all empathetic, and I don't think we should be ashamed of that. I don't like hiding it.