# Folder Structure

## Introduction

Before diving into the projects components and design, you should probably be able to navigate the directory with confidence.

Here's an outline of the folders found in this repository:

```
root
  | .cache
  | .circleci
  | .github
  | .netlify
  | docs
  | node_modules
  | public
  | src
    | components
      | page-specific
    | data
    | helpers
    | pages
    | templates
  | static
    | admin
    | assets
    | fonts
    | icons
  | subdomains
    | ...
 ... random files
```

All of the random files are just different parts of configuration for the site, some may be tooling, some may be docs, others may help build the site. Each of these files can be looked up to fully understand since there are a few too many.

---

## Table of Contents

- [Build Folders](#build-folders)
  - [`.cache`](#cache)
  - [`public`](#public)
  - [`node_modules`](#nodemodules)
- [Dot Folders](#dot-folders)
  - [`.cache`](#cache-1)
  - [`.circleci`](#circleci)
  - [`.github`](#github)
  - [`.netlify`](#netlify)
- [Site Code](#site-code)
  - [`src`](#src)
  - [`static`](#static)
- [Extra](#extra)
  - [`docs`](#docs)
  - [`subdomains`](#subdomains)

---

## Build Folders

### `.cache`

A folder generated by Gatsby for handling the caching of the site while being developed. It is gitignored and can be safely deleted since it's regenerated at build-time.

### `public`

The public folder acts as the client version of the `static/` folder, which contains assets and files which are sent directly to the client-side. It's regenerated in development by Gatsby, so it's not present in the repo.

### `node_modules`

The beefy directory of every modern JS app. It contains all dependencies and dependency dependencies for the app, and is never sent to the client, purely for development.

---

## Dot Folders

### `.cache`

See [.cache](#.cache)

### `.circleci`

The configuration for the continuous integration done through CircleCI.

### `.github`

Repository configuration files that allow for Pull Request and Issue templates through GitHub.

### `.netlify`

Since the site is deployed through Netlify, this folder holds some unique identifiers that aid in the continuous deployment.

---

## Site Code

### `src`

The directory containing all of the source code for the main site. The sub-folders are the following:

- `components` - Reusable React components found across the site
  - `page-specific` - React components which are unique to certain basic pages
- `data` - The static data that is accessed throughout the site
- `helpers` - Tooling functions to offload basic code
- `pages` - React components which are compiled by Gatsby into visitable pages.
- `templates` - Similar to pages, but these templates are used systematically to build the site.

### `static`

A folder containing the static files which are directly sent to the client on the website. These are things like images, fonts, assets, HTML templates. The sub-folders are the following:

- `admin` - configuration for the CMS interface found on `/admin`
- `assets` - images and other static assets
- `fonts` - typefaces for the website
- `icons` - iconography, site logos, base images

---

## Extra

### `docs`

Since this entire site is built with Netlify CMS as the backbone, if I ever forget my way around the repo, or someone wants to fork its code, the markdown docs in this folder will provide some clarity.

### `subdomains`

Each folder in here is created into a subdomain with the same name. The build commands are in the `root/netlify.toml` file, but the content in each of the subfolders are what is built via branch deploys in Netlify.
